(collaboration)=
# Collaboration

- **Further strengthen the interconnectivity of communities.** A flourishing ecosystem of knowledge sharing and exchange between communities relies on networks and platforms where projects, ideas and news can be openly distributed. Prior to the formation of OpenSustain.Tech, many organisations, users and developers found it difficult to navigate active projects in and across topics in OSS for sustainability. Strengthening the interconnectivity of communities can alleviate contributor risk, provide opportunities for greater participation, and build capacity for more effective collaboration. The emergence and convergence of diverse groups plays a vital role in consolidating and furthering developing shared values, visions, mindsets and ideas embodied within Open Sustainability Principles.

---

- **Provide maintainers with training and support to preserve open source projects.** Maintainers must be trained in both software development as well as community and project management. Many lead developers are experts in their fields, however often lack the knowledge and experience required to build and maintain healthy communities around their projects, with marketing and other entrepreneurial activities often being neglected. In many cases, it is assumed that a high quality project will quickly find users and contributors, which is not necessarily the case in practice. Unfortunately, there is a lack of training materials and opportunities tailored to the unique characteristics of OSS in sustainability. Providing documented approaches and training and support can help ensure that maintainers can build the community capacity required to preserve open source projects in the long term. One way to archive this goal is establising [open source program office](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/resources/open-source-guides/creating-an-open-source-program) at your organisations.

---

- **Connect projects to local use cases.** Cities can play a central role in the application of various open source technologies as they translate research and development into action on the ground. However, the knowledge and skills required to implement and use OSS is often lacking at his level. As a high degree of technical expertise is often required, it is necessary for OSS project developers to integrate such technologies within user-friendly interfaces. At the same time, data scientists working directly with local authorities will be key in bridging the gaps between urban application, research, and policy development. Both sides can benefit significantly from this partnership; local authorities can support researchers with city-level data at a high temporal and spatial resolution from multiple sites, while researchers provide shared digital resources and insights for local application and integration. Such an approach enhances industry-government-research collaborations, which is essential for answering important research questions and the generalisation of models and tools. Together with local communities, such partnerships could enhance data-driven decision making, ensure digital services facilitate social inclusion, and foster a co-creation process with citizens and businesses based on local conditions and needs.

---

- **Maintain and defend an open orientation within academia.** While many of the projects identified within this study are the outputs of publicly funded research, many research institutions are yet to embrace open science and promote open source as the default position. The reasons for this are vast, complex, and vary across regions, but is often the result of  market forces and public policy, with universities increasingly adopting a for-profit orientation. While the protection of intellectual property remains common practice, research constantly demonstrates that regulatory and legal obstacles [actively hampers innovation](https://jost.syr.edu/wp-content/uploads/6_Azzarelli-SSTLR-Vol.-21-Fall-2009-FINAL.pdf)<sup><a href="https://doi.org/10.1093/icc/dtm016">1</a>,<a href="https://doi.org/10.2202/1555-5879.1438">2</a></sup>. However, there is a clear desire among academics to abandon outdated intellectual property models. The majority of [American](https://doi.org/10.1007/s43545-022-00524-3) and [Canadian academics](https://doi.org/10.1080/2331186X.2022.2122255) support an open orientation, encouraging universities to establish open source endowed chairs. Western Sydney University is one of the first academic institutions to make an [official open source commitment](https://theconversation.com/why-we-need-open-source-science-innovation-not-patents-and-paywalls-192484) of this kind. With more universities incorporating the Sustainable Development Goals into their internal strategies, we encourage both academics and administrators to evaluate their contribution towards these Global Goals within the context of open source and public-purpose value, particularly with respect to environmental sustainability. In light of this, we recommend that _all publicly funded research within the fields of sustainability be made open access and open source by default_, for the benefit of the people and the planet.

---

- **Support the use of open source products and software development within government.** Open source approaches can give government agencies better control over technologies and sustainable outcomes. While the adoption of open source software and its principles is rarely reflected within official government policy, several public institutions have official measures in place to ensure effective use of OSS. In 2016, the USA Government published a federal source code policy, [The People’s Code](https://www.cio.gov/2016/08/11/peoples-code.html). This policy mandates at least 20% of custom source code developed by USA federal agencies must be released as OSS and shared between agencies. Likewise, the European Commission's internal [Open Source Software Strategy](https://ec.europa.eu/commission/presscorner/detail/en/ip_21_6649) "promotes the sharing and reuse of software solutions, knowledge and expertise, to deliver better European services that benefit society and lower costs to society.". The benefits of using OSS products and open source software development across government towards sustainable applications are vast. Direct benefits include reducing the total cost of ownership, preventing costly vendor lock-in (at the expense to the taxpayer), improving digital autonomy, enhancing multi-scale and cross-agency interoperability, bolstering security of infrastructure and digital services, and enhancing the co-design of digital services through community participation. The [Open source software guideline](https://www.forgov.qld.gov.au/information-and-communication-technology/qgea-policies-standards-and-guidelines/open-source-software-guideline), published by the Queensland Government, highlights the expected benefits of using and developing open source software within government, and provides information for agencies considering adopting a similar approach.

---

- **Create open communities for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions through remote sensing.** Although emissions are central to climate change, and Earth observation provides an unprecedented wealth of new data and information about our planet, our analysis highlights a lack of collaboration in this emerging field. Free access to satellite data from Sentinel-5P, GOSAT, GOSAT2, OCO1 or OCO2 could provide the basis for such collaboration. However, in many cases, the integration of these data into a common format is costly. There is also a lack of powerful and open transport models that can trace these emission measurements back to individual point sources. Although open repositories such as [STILT](https://github.com/uataq/stilt) and [X-STILT](https://github.com/uataq/X-STILT) exist for these models, open licences and communities are lacking. The first important steps in the right direction are shown by [Emissions API](https://github.com/emissions-api/emissions-api) and [oco2peak](https://github.com/dataforgoodfr/batch7_satellite_ges). Monitoring point emissions through open and traceable satellite data and models has the long-term potential to prevent the obscuring of major emission sources and to attribute them to polluters.

 ```{figure} ../images/forestatrisk.png
---
width: 100%
---
<br/>The [forestatrisk](https://ecology.ghislainv.fr/forestatrisk/) Python package can be used to model the tropical deforestation spatially, predict the spatial risk of deforestation, and forecast the future forest cover in the tropics.
 ```
