# Open Sustainability Principles 

Openness is a key indicator of sustainability. It allows different disciplines and organisations to refine their understanding of sustainability systematically over a long period of time. Knowledge can only continue to accumulate over a long period of time if it is made accessible. This basic idea is often associated with the metaphor "Standing on the shoulders of giants” which means “building on previous discoveries”. This expression, which describes a core idea of how science progresses, was coined by Issac Newton. **It is this attribute of making one's intentions and conclusions transparent to others that makes openness integral to sustainability and prevents manipulation of conclusions about the state of our planet.** The cross-domain quantitative analyses, discussions, and research in this study have made it possible to define the essential Open Sustainability Principles. These 4 principles are defined as follows:

```{figure} ../images/Orion_aveugle_cherchant_le_soleil.jpg
---
height: 400px
---
Blind Orion Searching for the Rising Sun by Nicolas Poussin, 1658. The progressing of science and knowledge is phrased with the metaphor "standing on the shoulders of giants".
```

## Transparency and Trust

**Understanding how human actions affect the environment, and which practices and technologies protect natural resources for the long-term, is essential for a sustainable economy.** Many solutions are complex, and it is not always obvious whether they will be economically, environmentally, or socially sustainable. How can solar cell recycling be done economically? Can carbon capture and storage be a scalable and environmentally viable mitigation strategy to decrease carbon dioxide in the atmosphere? Is land used for biofuel crops competing with food production or reducing biodiversity? Open datasets, models, and access can be critical for transparency and trust in the search for answers to these questions. 

**Open source approaches also allow for public scrutiny and independent auditing.** The ever-increasing resolution of satellite data in recent years means that even the impact of individual companies on the environment can be measured. Open data and models create transparent metrics and more comprehensive sustainability impact assessments. For example, open datasets track the locations and companies involved in [cement production](https://www.cgfi.ac.uk/spatial-finance-initiative/geoasset-project/geoasset-databases/), [iron and steel production](https://www.cgfi.ac.uk/spatial-finance-initiative/geoasset-project/geoasset-databases/), and [global coal, oil, and gas supply chains](https://github.com/Lkruitwagen/global-fossil-fuel-supply-chain). The platform [Carbon Mapper](https://carbonmapperdata.org/map) shows how to build pressure on companies by disclosing methane and carbon dioxide sources. Through satellite imagery, impacts to the natural environment such as greenhouse gas emissions, land use change, biodiversity loss, [soil drought](https://github.com/esowc/ml_drought), or [water pollution](https://github.com/RAJohansen/waterquality) can be measured with high temporal and spatial resolution. All kinds of forest health indicators can be derived from this data, like [deforestation risk](https://github.com/ghislainv/forestatrisk), [wildfire risk](https://github.com/pyronear/pyro-vision), [biodiversity](https://github.com/jbferet/biodivMapR) or [tree detection](https://github.com/weecology/DeepForest). 

**The use and improvement of these methods provide independent evidence that habitats are being lost and will ultimately help in the fight to protect these ecosystems.** Demanding transparency will help to reduce greenwashing and ensure that businesses' environmental impacts are verifiable, accountable, and traceable.

## Traceable Decision-Making  

**Open source approaches create a common understanding of the steps required to deploy various solutions and scientifically assess their environmental impact before taking any action.** With more accurate information, efforts can be focused on the highest leverage solutions. Open science discloses the models behind these measurements and reduces uncertainties in the long term through continuous improvement and observation. 

**Open source tools enable meaningful comparisons that guide decision-making.** Economy-wide tools such as [open life-cycle assessments](https://opensustain.tech/#life-cycle-assessment) provide a suite of functions for analysing and visualising input data and results of integrated-assessment models, macro-energy scenarios, energy systems analysis, and sectoral studies. At the sectoral level, open-source platforms like [Electricity Maps](https://app.electricitymap.org/map) calculate and predict the carbon intensity of electric power consumption within electrical grids worldwide on an hourly basis. This information is used to shift computation to times when there is a high share of renewable energy sources in the electricity grid, thereby reducing emissions. Other developments like [pvlib](https://github.com/pvlib) provide open libraries for simulating the performance of photovoltaic (PV) energy systems. The provided models are used to evaluate current performance and determine the future value of PV generation projects and, by extension, influence how PV projects and technologies are perceived by the financial community in terms of investment risk. Some systems require decisions to be taken continually with respect to the consumption of everyday resources. For example, developers and businesses can use tools like [Scaphandre](https://github.com/hubblo-org/scaphandre), [Cloud Carbon Footprint](https://github.com/cloud-carbon-footprint/cloud-carbon-footprint), and [Kube Green](https://github.com/kube-green/kube-green) to measure and reduce the energy consumption of data centres. These tools help track power consumption, estimate carbon emissions, and inform decisions about the optimal use of IT infrastructure. 

## Collaborative Innovation

**Open innovation strategies accelerate collaborative cultures.** This, in turn, translates into significant commercial advantages: better adaptation for new business opportunities, increased flexibility in developed solutions, and motivating a broader community to develop an ongoing stream of external innovations. One example is the open online marketplace for local food, [Open Food Network](https://github.com/openfoodfoundation/openfoodnetwork). It enables a network of independent online food stores that connects farmers and food hubs (including co-ops, online farmers' markets, independent food businesses, etc) with individuals and local businesses. It gives farmers and food hubs an easier and fairer way to distribute food. 

**Open source approaches also mean each problem only has to be solved once.** Frequently, multiple actors invest in open data products, algorithms, and software – leading to duplication, incoherent outcomes, and inefficient use of resources. Through open collaboration, OSS can mitigate inefficiencies in resource allocation and allow for a decentralised, loosely coordinated approach. For example, rather than developing yet another local bike-sharing system, the team behind Citybikes provides bike-sharing data to apps, research, and hundreds of other projects. Citybikes is built on [pybikes](https://github.com/eskerda/pybikes) and currently supports over 400 cities, and the Citybikes API is the most widely used dataset for building bike-sharing transportation projects.

**OSS also standardised the practice of collaboration between the contributors, spreading** the benefits of cooperative software development for common standards and higher code quality. For example, the [mobility-data-specification](https://github.com/openmobilityfoundation/mobility-data-specification) is a data standard that enables right-of-way regulation and two-way communication between mobility companies and local governments. Open interfaces and an open architecture make it possible to divide the complexity into different modules, which greatly facilitates cooperation between different developments and organisations.

**Over the past decade, multiple companies have demonstrated that open businesses can also grow and be financially sustainable.** A 2021 [study](https://digital-strategy.ec.europa.eu/en/library/study-about-impact-open-source-software-and-hardware-technological-independence-competitiveness-and) on the economic impact of open source software and hardware concluded that open source technologies injected **EUR 65-95 billion** into the European economy. Open source significantly boosted small and mid-size enterprises, Europe's most important horizontal economic stakeholders; growth was reflected in the increased creation of technology startups at more than 650 per year, and SMEs that rely on open innovation and access to and retention of technical talent are making upstream contributions. Commercial open source has seen a massive upswing in the last year with its own [conferences](https://2020.opencoresummit.com/), [business models](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Business_models_for_open-source_software), [strategies](https://future.com/open-source-community-commercialization/) and venture capital funds like [OSSC](https://oss.capital/) or [Open Core Ventures](https://opencoreventures.com/). These developments in the IT infrastructure industry already show how a new mindset is driving a systematic shift away from classic proprietary business models. **The same mindset can be applied to open, sustainable technologies.** 

## Localisation and Decentralisation

**Wealthy economies with greater technological capacity help developing countries adapt more quickly to climate change by openly licensing the required technologies.** Open source-based participation and collaboration contribute significantly to the global circulation of knowledge about sustainable development. In addition, by sharing information and enabling technologies, under-resourced communities can rapidly build local interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary capacity, accelerating both digital and sustainability transformations. This is especially important for place-based innovations in mobility, food, and housing. For example, [open agriculture](https://opensustain.tech/#agriculture-fishery-and-nutrition) can be adopted by farmers to decrease the environmental impact of their farming techniques. Practices like these enable faster global change that is responsive to local conditions and cultural needs. 

**Countries must also be supported to rapidly deploy and adapt open source technologies to meet their infrastructure needs.** This has the potential to enhance economic complexity, and provide job growth and resource efficiency gains (Ma et al., 2022) For example, open-source projects such as [NASA Harvest](https://github.com/nasaharvest/cropharvest#cropharvest), which uses its measurements, forecasts, and maps to improve food security and agriculture worldwide. By open-sourcing the data, models, and software tools, the derived knowledge and insights are easily accessible, adaptable, and actionable where it is of most value. This is critical to building resilience, social equality, and economic viability. The alternative, pursuing proprietary options, may not be conducive at the speed and scale required. OSS, on the other hand, can lay a digital foundation based on solutions that are more easily integrated, interoperable, and adaptable. In addition, increasing a country's internal capacity ensures that software can be built and maintained locally, reducing reliance on external suppliers. 

```{figure} ../images/crop_harvest.jpg
---
height: 400px
---
CropHarvest is an open source remote sensing dataset for agriculture with benchmarks. It collects data from a variety of agricultural land use datasets and remote sensing products.
```

