# Collaboration

**Connecting projects to local use cases.** Cities and towns can play a central role in the application of various environmental datasets and models as they translate findings into action on the ground. However, they often lack the skills and knowledge to use OSS. Many of these developments require a high level of technical expertise to use. Therefore, it is necessary for OSS project developers to integrate such developments into more usable interfaces. At the same time, the integration of datasets from different sites can contribute significantly to the generalisation of models and tools. Data Science working directly at city governments can also contribute significantly to bridging the gaps between urban application and research. Both sides can benefit significantly from partnerships by providing researchers with local data from multiple sites, while cities can support their application and integration. 

<br />

**Further strengthening the interconnectivity of communities**. A flourishing ecosystem of knowledge sharing and exchange between communities needs a platform where projects, ideas and news can be distributed. Before this project, many organisations, users and developers were not able to get an overview of the active projects within and across topics in OSS for sustainability. Making OSS communities robust and better connected can alleviate the increased contributor risk and provide opportunities for teams to form and contribute more equitably. This helps consolidate and further develop shared values, visions, mindsets and ideas related to Open Sustainable Principles.

<br />

**Train maintainers to preserve open source projects for the long run.** Maintainers must be trained not only in software development, but also in community and project management. Many individuals who come into such a position are experts in their field, but do not know how to maintain a solid community around their projects. Marketing and other entrepreneurial activities are often neglected. In many cases it is assumed that a high quality project will quickly find users and contributors, which is often not the case in practice. Unfortunately, there is a lack of training material and offers in this area which are necessary for the special characteristics of OSS projects. For many large projects, open source business models based on potentially irregular donations are not a viable way to finance a project, and a more regular income stream is needed. Despite the increased adoption of this new business model, documented approaches and training possibilities are still absent.