# Overall

Based on the insights, we propose recommendations for those interested in supporting the OSS for sustainability more effectively:

- **Closing the knowledge gap on the environmental impact of industries and individual companies.** This study has shown that very few companies are willing to engage in open scientific dialogue about their environmental impact. Open science, such as on emissions from industrial facilities, is usually conducted by external stakeholders. Open Scope 1 emission data would be invaluable to verify the environmental impact of companies using remote sensing methods. Projects, networks, and collaborations between independent scientists and industry that enable open science in sustainability could create a better understanding of the environmental impacts of entire industries. One way to incentivise companies is to build openness and scientific verifiability into the sustainability assessment itself. Statements that cannot be verified with data must be subject to a high degree of uncertainty, as is common in empirical research.
 
 <br />

- **Adaptability and extension of existing OSS for underrepresented countries in the global south.** In particular, projects in emerging economies, the global south, and Asia have limited involvement in the development of open knowledge, software, and data related to their natural environment. Building and empowering local communities to use open source tools for local change and technological transformation therefore has far-reaching potential. Knowledge generated in this way within a society is more trusted by the local population. Especially in fast-growing nations like India, there are many young people who have the potential to use OSS to better understand their local environments and thus protect important ecosystems. Scholarships that teach young people how to use open source to understand the natural environment are of great benefit to the climate and the planet. At the same time, such investments are cheap and easily applicable worldwide. The [Learning](https://opensustain.tech/learning/) section on OpenSustain.tech can help build the foundation of knowledge, projects and people needed. [Earthlabs](https://www.earthdatascience.org/) and [Pythia](https://projectpythia.org/) already demonstrate how such a format for the Earth Science field can look like.

<br />

- **Establish an open Earth Intelligence Incubator**. Despite the high synergy between open source culture and sustainable environmental developments, there are no incubators or programs that are specialised in environmental open source project development. While there are individual programs focused on nonprofits and academia, there is a lack of funding, knowledge, and programs for commercial open source solutions in environmental sustainability. This also explains the low proportion of academic open source projects that are industrialised via open source business models. Such an incubator can fill important gaps within the ecosystem:
    - Identify opportunities for new ventures and new non profits that creatively combine existing components of the ecosystem to create more public purpose value.
    - Incentivise development of new ventures and projects that combine modules and packages into highly valuable open source products.
    - Provide support including marketing, design, funding packages, business model design and community management.
    - Networking with potential users such as cities, government agencies, and nature reserves

<br />

- **Transforming financial institutions through transparent and scientific decision making for sustainable investments.** Banks, rating agencies and investors are at the centre of our economy and decide which inventions are sustainable and viable. However, our analysis has shown that open software tools and data are the exception in this domain. This makes decision-making in this opaque and vulnerable to greenwashing. Financial products that use open and scientific methods for their decisions can significantly contribute to securing the trust of investors. Banks and rating agencies would thus become key users and potential contributors to a variety of environmentally relevant open source projects. [OS-Climate](https://os-climate.org/) already represents an important milestone here. The financial industry is still far away from sustainable investment funds that work on the basis of open science methods. However, such a development has the potential to create greenwashing-free investment opportunities for private and public investors. 
