## Prelude

In 2019, Eirini Malliaraki curated a collection of open data in the field of environmental information . [Data for Environmental Intelligence](https://github.com/rockita/Environmental_Intelligence) gives an overview of open and freely available resources on the state of our natural environment from different perspectives, such as biodiversity, or Earth observation. It was assembled with the aim of helping developers, journalists, scientists – ultimately, anyone with access to an internet connection – to find information on how our planet's natural systems are changing. 

In the same year, Tobias Augspurger curated a list of open source robotic tooling for professional robotic development with the Robotic Operation System (ROS) . Based on his experience leading the development of a complete robotic software stack at DHL , primarily based on open source tools, he became convinced that *Open Source will have a significant impact on how technology and the relationship to societies will evolve in the future*. 

Together with *protontypes* – an online community – they created the [Open Sustainable Technology](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/u/1/d/1MssHiv6moQJ1KDi1E4mSjd5AksxNP3Uz7BrIYROaQVs/edit) project to map all open source software repositories within the field of environmental sustainability. Their goal was to capture a complete picture of this emerging open source ecosystem. It soon became clear that a wealth of information could be derived from this database, and warranted further study.

In September 2021 Eirini and Tobias combined their efforts towards a common goal: to study and understand the intersection of open source, environmental sustainability, and technology – and to share their findings and insights with the public. Further collaborations have been established to capture a global picture of this open source ecosystem. In 2022, Josh Hopkins joined to investigate which open source projects can be integrated into digital public goods for communities and decision-makers, led by sustainability intelligence non-profit, Open Corridor. Shortly after, Kasia Kulma joined. Kasia uses the online open source repository [Climate Change Data](https://github.com/KKulma/climate-change-data) to collect open data sources and power APIs foor a wide range of stakeholders.

```{figure} ../images/mycelium_city_solarpunk.png
---
align: center
---
Open Source software and Open Data are the foundation of today's innovation processes. This artwork is generated by the Open Source AI [Stable Diffusion](https://github.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion) in the style of Solarpunk.
```
